Requirements
------------

7train requires Java 1.4 or later. Please see the Saxon requirements
page for more information on this requirement
(http://www.saxonica.com/documentation/index/installationjava/prerequisites.html).
 	
Instructions
------------

Installation
============

Download and unzip 7train-1.1.zip

This will create a directory called ``7train-1.1`` with the following
files (see About7train.txt for more information)::

  7train.xsl
  cdm.bat
  cdmmd2dc.xwalk
  cdm.sh
  cdm.xsl
  LICENSE
  README (this file)
  saxon9.jar
  SAXON_LICENSE
  xwalker.xsl
  doc/
    About7train.txt
    Customizing.txt
  drivers/
    idmap.xml
    institutions.xml
  examples/ 
    oai.xsl
    oai-sample.xml
  output/
    [empty]

Export your collection from CONTENTdm using the CONTENTdm Standard XML
export.

Save CONTENTdm export in the ``input`` directory.
     
Running 7train
==============

Windows
~~~~~~~

Drag & Drop
^^^^^^^^^^^

Drag the CONTENTdm Standard XML export file onto the file ``cdm.bat``.

The METS records will be saved in the directory ``output``.
     			
Command Line
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Open a Command Prompt (Start/Program Files/Accessories/Command Prompt).

Go the the 7train directory (i.e.:: 

  cd C:\Documents and Settings\username\Desktop\7train

Type the following command and hit enter::

  .\cdm.bat CONTENTdmExportFileName.xml

The METS records will be saved in the directory "output."
     		
Mac
~~~
Open a terminal window (in Applications/Utilities)

Change your current directory to the location that you unpacked 7train
in::

  cd /path/to/7train/

Enter the following command::

  sh cdm.sh /path/to/CONTENTdmExportFileName.xml
     		
Linux
~~~~~
Open a shell.

Change your current directory to the location that you unpacked 7train
in::

  cd /path/to/7train/

Enter the following command::

  sh cdm.sh /path/to/CONTENTdmExportFileName.xml
     		
Troubleshooting
---------------

Saxon
=====

For information on the Saxon parser, please go to the Saxon website at
http://saxon.sourceforge.net/

Installing Java
===============

Please go to the Sun website for details on how to install Java on
Microsoft Windows: http://www.java.com/

Setting the JAVA_HOME variable
==============================

For Mac and Linux users, if you are encountering errors that look like this::

  cdm.sh: /path/to/java/bin/java: not found

please be certain that you ``JAVA_HOME`` variable is set. In bash (Linux
or Mac OS X), type the following::

  export JAVA_HOME=/path/to/java/dir

or in (t)csh::

  setenv JAVA_HOME /path/to/java/dir

The JAVA_HOME variable should be set to such a value that, if
``/bin/java`` is appended (e.g., ``/path/to/java/dir/bin/java``), it
resolves to the java binary.

Saxon
-----

7train is distributed with the Saxon-B XSLT processor, version
9.1.0.7j. The licensing terms for Saxon-B may be found in the file
``SAXON_LICENSING``. For more information about Saxon, please visit
the Saxon web site, http://saxon.sourceforge.net/. For more
information on the licensing terms of Saxon-B, see
http://www.saxonica.com/documentation/conditions/intro.html.

Bug reports & feedback
----------------------

Submit a New Bug at this webpage:
http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=add&group_id=160856&atid=817523

Submit a New Support Request at this webpage:
http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=add&group_id=160856&atid=817524

